Exposure to tumor promoter and tumor
initiator can determine
whether cancer will develop.
In experiment A,
mice were treated on the skin
with one application of a tumor initiator.
Represented with an orange arrow.
Over time, no cancer developed.
In experiment
B, mice were exposed to successive
applications of a tumor promoter,
indicated here by a pink triangle.
These mice also did not develop cancer.
In experiment
C, mice were treated with one application
of the tumor initiator,
followed by successive applications
of the tumor promoter.
This combination of the tumor initiator
followed by the tumor promoter
did lead to cancer development.
These experiments demonstrate
that cancers develop
when exposure to an initiator
is followed by exposure to a promoter.